# Telemetry commands

By default, the telemetry mode of OceanBase Deployer (OBD) is enabled. If you run any of the following commands, OBD collects and desensitizes the host information, cluster information, and operation results of plug-ins, and sends the desensitized information to OceanBase Database.

* obd cluster autodeploy

* obd cluster deploy

* obd cluster start

* obd cluster stop

* obd cluster reload

* obd cluster upgrade

For more information about the preceding commands, see [Cluster commands](../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md).

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>OBD desensitizes the sensitive data, such as IP addresses, that is collected in telemetry mode. With the collected data, OceanBase can better understand how users manipulate OceanBase Database and identify possible issues, thereby improving the performance of OceanBase Database. </p>
</main>

## Manage telemetry commands

You can enable or disable the telemetry mode by setting the environment variable `TELEMETRY_MODE` of OBD.

To disable the telemetry mode, run the following command:

```shell
obd env set TELEMETRY_MODE 0
```

To enable the telemetry mode, run the following command:

```shell
obd env set TELEMETRY_MODE 1
```

You can enable or disable telemetry data logging by setting the environment variable `TELEMETRY_LOG_MODE` of OBD. By default, telemetry data logging is enabled and the telemetry data is recorded in the `obd` file in the `~/.obd/log/` directory.

To disable telemetry data logging, run the following command:

```shell
obd env set TELEMETRY_LOG_MODE 0
```

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>We recommend that you enable telemetry data logging. After you disable the feature, you cannot view the information collected by OBD. </p>
</main>

## View the collected data

You can open the `obd` file in the `~/.obd/log/` directory and search for `telemetry_data` to view the information collected by OBD.
