# Upgrade OCP Express

This topic describes how to upgrade OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Express by running commands of OceanBase Deployer (OBD) on the CLI.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>At present, you can upgrade OCP Express only by running OBD commands on the CLI. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* You have deployed OCP Express.

* The OBD version must be V2.1.0 or later.

## Obtain the hash value of OCP Express

Before you upgrade OCP Express, you must know the hash value of the target version. You can use one of the following methods to obtain the hash value:

### Method 1: obtain the hash value online

If your server can access the Internet, you can upgrade OBD and use it to obtain the information from the remote image repository. Perform the following steps:

1. Run the following command to connect to the remote image repository:

   ```shell
   obd mirror enable remote
   ```

2. Run the following command to upgrade OBD to the latest version:

   ```shell
   obd update
   ```

3. Run the following command to view the OBD version and verify whether the upgrade is successful:

   ```shell
   obd --version
   ```

4. Run the following command to query the version of OCP Express in the remote repository:

   ```shell
   obd mirror list oceanbase.community.stable|grep ocp-express
   ```

   In the following sample output, the strings displayed in the rightmost column are the hash values of the corresponding versions of OCP Express.

   ```shell
   | ocp-express                       | 1.0.0   | 100000432023032015.el7 | x86_64 | c6156b6676746d697e0bb46b50a062ce188cb76f2f95f1fd4d6ac14dd8d71f76 |
   | ocp-express                       | 1.0.0   | 100000452023041914.el7 | x86_64 | a70d09919bcbad065270e8ff3984ef18c332c2f5983b756fc55956ce910f7d2d |
   ```

### Method 2: obtain the hash value offline

If your server cannot access the Internet, you can download the OceanBase all-in-one installation package to upgrade OBD and then obtain the required information. Perform the following steps:

1. Download the all-in-one installation package.

   Download the all-in-one installation package from [OceanBase Download Center](https://www.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter) and copy it to the central control server. We recommend that you download the latest version of the all-in-one installation package.

2. In the directory where the installation package is located, run the following commands to decompress and install the package.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <ul>
      <li>
      <p>You must install the all-in-one installation package with the same account that you use to install OCP Express.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
      <p>If you have installed the all-in-one installation package, we recommend that you use the <code>upgrade.sh</code> script to upgrade OBD after you download and decompress the package. To be specific, replace the <code>./install.sh</code> command in the sample code with the <code>./upgrade.sh</code> command.</p>
      </li>
      </ul>
   </main>

   ```shell
   [admin@test001 ~]$ tar -xzf oceanbase-all-in-one-*.tar.gz
   [admin@test001 ~]$ cd oceanbase-all-in-one/bin/
   [admin@test001 bin]$ ./install.sh
   [admin@test001 bin]$ source ~/.oceanbase-all-in-one/bin/env.sh
   ```

3. Run the following command to query the version of OCP Express in the remote repository:

   ```shell
   obd mirror list local
   ```

   In the following sample output, the strings displayed in the rightmost column are the hash values of the corresponding versions of OCP Express.

   ```shell
   | ocp-express       | 1.0.0   | 100000432023032015.el7 | x86_64 | 42c6fc921063f24f9e1072d75bfa7f21f42146e3 |
   | ocp-express       | 1.0.0   | 100000452023041914.el7 | x86_64 | 5b29837dc1f575c7d1840ab8e59064ddd407bd4b |
   ```

## Upgrade OCP Express

### Intra-version upgrade

You can run the `obd cluster reinstall` command to perform an intra-version upgrade of OCP Express. For more information about the `obd cluster reinstall` command, see [Cluster commands](../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md).

Run the following command to upgrade OCP Express to the target version by using the obtained MD5 hash value:

```shell
obd cluster reinstall obtest -c ocp-express --hash=a70d09919bcbad065270e8ff3984ef18c332c2f5983b756fc55956ce910f7d2d
```

### Inter-version upgrade

You can run the `obd cluster upgrade` command to perform an inter-version upgrade of OCP Express. For more information about the `obd cluster upgrade` command, see [Cluster commands](../300.obd-command/100.cluster-command-groups.md).

Run the following command to upgrade OCP Express to the target version by using the obtained MD5 hash value:

```shell
obd cluster upgrade <deploy name> -V <version> -c ocp-express --usable=<hash>
```

## Verify the upgrade

The account and password that you use to log on to the OCP console are not affected by the OCP Express upgrade. You can log on to the OCP console, choose **Help** > **About OCP Express**. On the page that appears, check the version number and release date to verify whether the OCP Express is upgraded to the target version.
